# Inverse designing surface curvatures by deep learning

Code and data of the machine learning framework described in the publication "**Inverse designing Surface Curvatures by Deep Learning**", _Advanced Intelligent Systems_, 2300789 (2024).

## Citation

If you use this code, please cite the following publication: 
Y. Guo, S. Sharma, and S. Kumar, **Inverse designing Surface Curvatures by Deep Learning**, _Advanced Intelligent Systems_, 2300789 (2024). DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/aisy.202300789

## Installation requirements

Note the codes were tested on the following package versions. Incompatibility issues may arise with different pacakge version (specifically, with pytorch versions higher than the one listed here).

- python 3.7.1  
- pytorch 1.7.0 
- cudatoolkit 11.0
- torchvision
- torchaudio
- matplotlib
- numpy-stl
- geomloss
- pickle5
- nibabel
- scikit-image
- sympy
- filesplit

## Usage

-  To generate curvature-based metamaterials, we use a curvature functional method from Anna Song (A. Song, Generation of Tubular and Membranous Shape Textures with Curvature Functionals, _J Math Imaging Vis 64, 17–40_ (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10851-021-01049-9.). Code: https://github.com/annasongmaths/curvatubes. Curvatubes can be generated by running 'python create_cvtub.py'.
-  Dataset used in this project can be found in folder './data/'. Large data files are split into smaller ones. Before using the dataset for training, please combine the data files by running 'decompress_data.py'.
-  Before doing inverse design, users need to train their own models by running 'fwd_train.py' and 'inv_train.py'. The trained model and loss histories will be stored in folder './model/'. Expected training time on 3 GPUs is about 24 hours for forward model and 10 hours for inverse model, duration may vary on different devices.
-  Once the inverse and forward models are trained, users can use them to do inverse design for demos under folder './benchmarks/'.
-  Further instructions are provided in README files inside each sub-directory.
-  For obtaining pre-trained models, please contact the authors of the publication.



